Allow course-level extensions for elements (#2507)
PrairieLearn/PrairieLearn: docs/elementExtensions.md

> # Element extensions developer guide

Reviewer: Add to:

https://github.com/PrairieLearn/PrairieLearn/blob/2260c3d99f0cb73f01463228b9a10f65b71804c2/mkdocs.yml#L37

> Extensions are a way to add custom logic and extra complexity to already existing elements.  Each element has the ability to load relevant extensions and as such, extensions should be custom tailored to one specific element.

Reviewer: I think this is what I thought PR https://github.com/PrairieLearn/PrairieLearn/pull/2384#discussion_r411444013 was?

Author: Ah, let me clarify a little bit.  Course elements allow someone to replace a whole element with a local copy in their course, which allows an easy way to make changes but then you end up with duplicate copies. 
What I'm proposing here is allowing elements to almost create their own developer interfaces that courses can make extensions for, I was initially thinking this could be used for the `pl-drawing` element if people wanted to make custom drawing objects, though this can be used by any large elements in the future as needed.

Reviewer: @nicknytko excellent. We're on the same page then! 

> but existing elements will need to add support for extensions to be able to use them.

In this case, I think prior to merging the PR, there should be an extension interface applied to at least one base element, `pl-drawing` would suffice in this case.

Author: Agreed, currently working on that for `pl-drawing` in a different branch but I think that may involve quite a bit of refactoring :slightly_smiling_face: 

How about the `pl-python-variable` element?  I think one could argue for the use case of adding new renderable types to that element.

Author: Discussed with @mfsilva22, added an example extension to the `pl-graph` elem

        "extensionScripts": ["JavaScripts in the extension directory"]
    }
}
```

### Python Controller

The main Python controller script has no general structure and is instead defined by the element that is being extended.  Any global functions and variables are available for use by the host element.

A host element can call the `load_element_extension()` function to load one specific extension, or `load_all_extensions_for_element()` to load everything that is available.  These are defined in the freeform `prairielearn` module.

Loading extension Python scripts returns a named tuple of all globally defined functions and variables.  Loading all extensions will return a dictionary mapping the extension name to its named tuple.  For example, if an extension were to define the following in their controller:

```python
def my_cool_function():
    return "hello, world!"
```

The host element could then call this by running the following:

```python
import prairielearn as pl

def render(element_html, data):
    extension = pl.load_element_extensions(data, 'extension_name')
    contents = extension.my_cool_function()
    return contents
```

> This small example above will render `"hello world!"` to the question page.  Note that no order is guaranteed when loading all extensions with `load_all_extensions_for_element()`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure allowing for a random order is a good thing... Is the reason why this is the case because `prairielearn` is using a version of `Python` before 3.6 so `dict` structures are missing order? If so, could we consider adding `OrdDict` from `collections` ala `from collections import OrderedDict`?

Details: https://stackoverflow.com/a/39537308/1345455

Author: Sure, though I'm not sure the order really matters as long as it's consistent?  I can sort the extensions in alphabetical order so it's deterministic.

### Extension Dependencies

> Like how questions and elements may require client-side assets, extensions may also require client-side JavaScript and CSS.  The different properties are summarized here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to how questions and elements may require client-side assets, extensions may also require client-side JavaScript and CSS.  The different properties are summarized here:
```

--- | ---
`coreStyles` | The styles required by this extension, relative to `[PrairieLearn directory]/public/stylesheets`.
`coreScripts` | The scripts required by this extension, relative to `[PrairieLearn directory]/public/javascripts`.
`nodeModulesStyles` | The styles required by this extension, relative to `[PrairieLearn directory]/node_modules`.
`nodeModulesScripts` | The scripts required by this extension, relative to `[PrairieLearn directory]/node_modules`.
`elementStyles` | The styles required by this element relative to the extension's directory,`[course directory]/elementExtensions/element-name/extension-name`.
`elementScripts` | The scripts required by this element relative to the extension's directory, `[course directory]/elementExtensions/element-name/extension-name`.
`clientFilesCourseStyles` | The styles required by this extension relative to `[course directory]/clientFilesCourse`.
`clientFilesCourseScripts` | The scripts required by this extension relative to `[course directory]/clientFilesCourse`.

Note that all client-side extension assets are always loaded, regardless of whether their Python controller was loaded or not.

### Other Client Files

> Other files available to the client may also be loaded, such as images or any downloadable content.  These client files should be placed in `clientFilesExtension` in the extension directory, and the full URL to that folder is given to the host extension in `data['options']['client_files_extensions_url'][extension_name]`.  If this path is needed by the extension itself, it may be passed as an argument to a defined extension function.

Reviewer: I think the documentation for developing a question element should include a reference back here or at the very least a note that extension data exists in `options`

https://github.com/PrairieLearn/PrairieLearn/blob/master/docs/question.md#question-serverpy
